it's been 10 days since he was born and
he's barely put on an
ounce today
vet cathy is going to do a blood test to
try to get to the bottom of what's
happening
all right i'm going to sedate because i
want to get a little bit of blood and i
know i'm not going to get it with him
wiggling
i mean i'd like to at least get a cbc or
white blood cell count on him
and if we can get a in-house chemistry
okay fabulous
hard to get blood on an adult sherfox
but it's a little bit of a challenge on
a baby
about point two point quarter and a half
quarter in the red top
his ordeal over rupert gets a
much-needed cuddle from cathay
and it seems he's none the worse for
wear
[Music]
well i don't really think that's where
we need you darling
okay let go all right
[Music]
don't think that's really what we were
hoping for pumpkin
the test results confirmed their worst
fears
his lab work came back and the white
blood cell counts quite high
the neutrophil count is quite high and
those two pieces of information go along
with either a
pretty marked infection or severe
inflammation but
since his white blood cell count is so
high
he is going to get started on this tasty
little
concoction i have here okay sweetheart
it's not mama but
same idea it's exactly what you need
right now
yum how's that so he's quite sprightly
today
well i'm hoping that with this course of
antibiotics
that he'll be able to maintain weight
gain on his own
that as we watch the weight and what
happens on a day-to-day basis that he'll
continue to gain
he should be gaining about five grams
per day
okay so let's put him back on mom and
we'll see him again tomorrow
okay every day we're gonna be pals
rupert will stay with mom while he
fights his infection
at his age being with her is the best
possible place for him
but there comes a time in every young
animal's life when they have to break
away from mum
i'm back in tenerife to find out if yara
the incredibly rare spix's macor
has managed to become independent of her
surrogate human mum
matteus so matisse uh
this is yara we've been introduced
obviously
what an honor how is she doing she does
perfectly
she is now about nine months old and
uh she hatched perfectly and we raised
her up without any problems and now you
see
it's a perfect bird she looks fantastic
so what will the future hold for her now
what will she do next so we will keep
her here sure some years
four or five years and this year's we
have to find a mail for her
to pair her up to make a new year
[Laughter]
she's hungry huh do you want something
so sh you will find a male from
somewhere else in the world
and hopefully pair them together exactly
you can see here three females and if we
will get a new
male yes he brings this male in this
cage yeah
and he he can select the females all
right luckily it's always the best
matter to to make new pairs
not to to select the yeah
let them select and then it's really
love
so she will become a very important part
of the mccall breeding program
now and you will hope what sort of
numbers do you have to get to
before you can even consider maybe
returning them to the wild so
every single bird in the program is
really important this is number
73 now and we hope to get 100
or more birds the most important thing
is to breed as much
as possible and if we reach more or less
in 100 we
can think about the releasing project
right there's not many but you would
really start to think about
really back to the world with a hundred
specs from a cause so you're getting
there and she
is a crucial part of that process you're
absolutely gorgeous
so mattes what is your dream for these
macaws so my dream is to release them to
bring them back to brazil to give this
wonderful species
back to the nature for the further
generations
my son i have a two-year-old son and i
like to
have the possibility with him to to show
him this wonderful species not only in
captivity
also in the nature and we as a humans
destroyed
the species in the nature and we have to
bring them back
fantastic i think you might i hope so
oh sorry you're
gorgeous and also quite greedy
which is good the highly successful
project
here at loro parque gives hope for the
future of these birds
and it's hope that's been keeping the
team looking after rupert the shafaka
going
for the last two weeks so how is he
oh hi big boy wow what a difference and
i did
i thought he was reasonably spunky last
time okay
hey big boy how much do you weigh now do
you want to hold on to this
little creature oh my gosh he just looks
bigger doesn't he
he really just looks like he's so much
bigger than last time
that's fabulous he is spunky he's alert
he's
doing he just looks wonderful he just
looks wonderful
[Music]
[Applause]
you